=head1 NAME

Text::MicroMason::Docs::ReadMe - About the MicroMason Distribution

=head1 MOTIVATION

The HTML::Mason module provides a useful syntax for dynamic template
interpretation (sometimes called embedded scripting): plain text (or
HTML) containing occasional chunks of Perl code whose results are
interpolated into the text when the template is "executed."

However, HTML::Mason also provides a full-featured web application
framework with numerous other functions, and there are times in which
I'd like to use the templating capability without configuring a full
Mason installation.

Thus, the Text::MicroMason module was born: it supports the core aspects
of the HTML::Mason syntax ("<%...%>" expressions, "%...\n" lines and
"<%perl>...</%perl>" blocks, "<& file &>" includes, "%ARGS" and 
"$_out->()"), and omits the features that are web specific (like
autohandlers) or are less widely used (like "<%method>" blocks).

You may well be thinking "yet another dynamic templating module?
Sheesh!" And you'd have a good point. There certainly are a wide variety
of templating toolkits on CPAN already. (For a brief list see
L<Text::MicroMason::Docs::Related>.)

Nonetheless, I think this module occupies a useful niche: it provides a
reasonable subset of HTML::Mason syntax in a very light-weight fashion.
In comparison to the other modules listed, MicroMason aims to be fairly
lightweight, using one eval per parse, converting the template to a
compiled subroutine reference, and requiring less than five hundred
lines of Perl code.

Although it notoriously difficult to fairly benchmark competing template
frameworks, at least some anecdotal evidence indicates that this module
performs reasonably well.
  http://use.perl.org/~hctif/journal/25211
  http://www.gtchat.de/templateengines/templateengines_en.html

It is also highly modular, allowing users to select and enable the
combination of features they desire. Automatic caching, safe
compartments, post-processing and other features are available as mixin
classes that are loaded on demand.

I've recently added mixin classes that emulate the template syntax used
by Apache::ASP, Embperl, HTML::Template, PLP, Text::Template, and
Text::QuickTemplate.


=head1 DISTRIBUTION STATUS

This is version 2.07 of Text::MicroMason. 

This module has been available on CPAN for over six years. 

If you encounter any problems, please inform the current maintainer and
I'll endeavor to patch them promptly.

This module's CPAN registration should read:

  Name            DSLIP  Description
  --------------  -----  ---------------------------------------------
  Text::          Group 11: Text Processing
  ::MicroMason    Rdpfp  Simplified HTML::Mason Templating

Please see the CPAN Testers report for a sample of systems this module
has been tested successfully on:

 http://testers.cpan.org/show/Text-MicroMason.html

=head1 PREREQUISITES

The required version of perl has been increased to 5.6 as of version
1.993_01. It should work with on any standard platform which runs Perl.

Although almost all currently existing features work on versions of Perl
reaching back to 5.0, it will benefit Text::MicroMason in the long run
if supporting legacy versions of Perl was not necessary. Please contact
the new maintainer to gripe, if you absolutely need Text::MicroMason on
an older version of Perl.  

There is one pre-requisite module not included with the core
distribution which must be installed from CPAN:
L<Class::MixinFactory|Class::MixinFactory>.

If you want to use the Text::Template compatibility mode, you will also
need to install L<Text::Balanced|Text::Balanced>.

Various other mixins included in MicroMason require other modules in
order to be useful, but MicroMason installs and tests without them. (I
should be more specific here in the future.)

=head1 INSTALLATION

You should be able to install this module using the CPAN shell interface:

  perl -MCPAN -e 'install Text::MicroMason'

Alternately, you may retrieve this package from CPAN
(C<http://search.cpan.org/~ferrency/>).

After downloading the distribution, follow the normal procedure to
unpack and install it, using the commands shown below or their local
equivalents on your system:

  tar xzf Text-MicroMason-*.tar.gz
  cd Text-MicroMason-*
  perl Makefile.PL
  make test && sudo make install


=head1 SUPPORT

If you have questions or feedback about this module, please feel free to
contact the maintainer or original author at the e-mail address listed
below. Although there is no formal support program, I do attempt to
answer email promptly.

I would be particularly interested in any suggestions towards
improving the documentation, correcting any Perl-version or platform
dependencies, as well as general feedback and suggested additions.

Bug reports that contain a failing test case are greatly appreciated,
and suggested patches will be promptly considered for inclusion in
future releases.

You can report bugs via the CPAN web tracking system, or send mail 
to C<bug-Text-MicroMason#rt.cpan.org>, replacing C<#> with C<@>.

  http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Text-MicroMason


=head1 COMMUNITY

If you've found this module useful or have feedback about your
experience with it, consider sharing your opinion with other Perl users
by posting your comment to CPAN's ratings system.

  http://cpanratings.perl.org/rate/?distribution=Text-MicroMason

For more general discussion, you may wish to post a message on the
CPAN::Forum, on PerlMonks, or on the comp.lang.perl.modules newsgroup.
These are not all monitored by the current maintainer, so if you want a
response, please contact me directly.

  http://www.cpanforum.com/dist/Text-MicroMason
  http://perlmonks.org/?node=Seekers%20of%20Perl%20Wisdom
  http://groups.google.com/groups?group=comp.lang.perl.modules


=head1 THANKS

My sincere thanks to the following people for their feedback and
contributions:

  Pascal Barbedor
  Mark Hampton
  Philip King
  Daniel J. Wright
  William Kern
  Tommi Maekitalo
  Alan Ferrency
  Jonas Alves
  Alexander
  Matthew Simon Cavalletto
  Jon Warbrick


=head1 SOURCE MATERIAL

Portions based on HTML::Mason by Jonathan Swartz. 

Portions based on Embperl by Gerald Richter.

Portions based on HTML::Template by Sam Tregar.

Portions based on PLP by Juerd Waalboer.

Portions based on Text::Template by Mark Jason Dominus.

Portions based on Text::QuickTemplate by Eric J. Roode.


=head1 AUTHOR

Developed by Matthew Simon Cavalletto at Evolution Softworks.  You may
contact the author directly at C<evo#cpan.org> or
C<simonm#cavalletto.org>, replacing C<#> with C<@>.

Currently maintained by Alan Ferrency <ferrency#cpan.org> at pair
Networks, Inc.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 Matthew Simon Cavalletto. 

Portions copyright 2001 Evolution Online Systems, Inc.

You may use, modify, and distribute this software under the same
terms as Perl.

=cut
